
a b s t r a c t
The fusion of mobile devices and social networks is stimulating a wider use of Location Based Service (LBS) and makes it become an important part in our daily life. However, the problem of privacy leakage has become a main factor that hinders the further development of LBS. When a LBS user sends queries to the LBS server, the user’s personal privacy in terms of identity and location may be leaked to the attacker. To protect user’s privacy, Niu et al. proposed an algorithm named enhanced-Dummy Location Selection (en-DLS). In this paper, we introduce two attacks to en-DLS, namely long-term statistical attack (LSA) and regional statistical attack (RSA). In the proposed attacks, an attacker can obtain the privacy contents of a user by analyzing LBS historical data, which causes en-DLS to be invalid for user’s privacy protection. Furthermore, this paper proposes a set of privacy protection schemes against both LSA and RSA. For LSA, we propose two protection methods named multiple user name (MNAME) and same user name (SNAME). To solve the regional privacy issue, we divide the map into various regions with different requirements on privacy protection. For this purpose, four levels of protection requirements (PLs) are defined, and true location is protected by allocating a certain number of positions from the dummies according to the location’s PL. Performance analysis and simulation results show that our proposed methods can completely avoid the vulnerabilities of en-DLS to both LSA and RSA, and incur marginal increase of communication overhead and computational cost.
© 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
With the development of mobile computing and network technology, mobile phone has become a necessity in people’s life.Besides satisfying the need of daily communications, mobile phone also provides many convenient services for human being [1]. With the development of smartphones, Global Positioning System (GPS) has been solidified in the most smartphones and provides function
for mobile service provider to position the smartphone. America E-911 document has pointed out that mobile service providers should provide location recognition service in 125 m in order thatthe owner of mobile phone can obtain timely rescue and help when she is in danger, such as fire or hijacked [2].
2.Recently, many Location Based Service (LBS) applications come into being. In spite of various benefits brought by LBS, the intrinsic privacy leakage problem cannot be ignored due to the openness of wireless networks [3]. At present, privacy leakage issues becomethe main obstacle to the wide application of LBS services.
    As stated in [4], location privacy is ‘‘the ability to prevent others from obtaining the current or past location of the user’’. For privacypreserving in LBS service, there are several challenges:
   • High Precision: The user’s identity and location should be protected. Meanwhile, the precision of LBS service should be ensured.
   • Low Overhead: The communication, computation and storage ability of the user terminal is limited. Thus, the communication overhead, the computational cost, and the storage overhead
should be low in preserving the user’s privacy.
   • Privacy: LBS server itself may be an attacker. It can obtain the user’s real location and historical data directly. The main solutions to protect user’s privacy can be divided into
obfuscation and anonymity according to the technology used. In anonymity, using dummy is efficient since it need not a trusted third party to preserve privacy and it attracts many scholars’
attention. Among them, Niu et al. proposed enhanced-Dummy Location Selection (en-DLS) based on the probability of sending LBS queries from a location in the history by users [5]. It solves
the problem of privacy leakage in a single LBS query. In [6],Niu et al. proposed Caching-aware Dummy Selection Algorithm (CaDSA) and enhanced-CaDSA which use caching to improve the
privacy of user. En-DLS has the following characteristics:
  • Side information: In en-DLS, side information refers to the terrain information in the city. The dummies are not selected from the rivers or mountains in the city, but carefully selected
based on the historical query probability in the locations. The problem of reducing in protection caused by side information
is solved.
  • Cloaking area: To overcome the disadvantage of k-anonymity, in en-DLS, the coverage area of the dummies is selected as larg as possible.
  • Implementation issues: In en-DLS, accessing to the historical queries is fully considered. Access Points (AP) based method is proposed. The communication overhead is relational.
   Although en-DLS solved the problem of privacy leakage in a LBS query, it has vulnerabilities. In this paper, we introduce two attacks to en-DLS, namely long-term statistical attack (LSA) and regional statistical attack (RSA). The attacker can obtain user’s privacy contents using historical statistics. For an attacker, after compromising the LBS server, he can obtain a large number of historical data. We introduce an attack named LSA to obtain user’s real identity and location using these historical data. We study based on LSA and put forward two methods to preserve privacy named multiple user name (MNAME) and same user name (SNAME). Besides LSA, the attacker can obtain the historical LBS applications from a particular region. Furthermore, the attacker can obtain a lot of information about the user from the region through statistics. For this problem, we propose a method to divide the regions in the map into different privacy levels (PLs). Then, we delete some dummy locations in en-DLS and select some locations from high PL regions to protect the privacy of the regions. We take entxu2007preventingabbas2013collusionropy as the metric to analyze the ability of the proposed methods. The performance analysis and simulation results show that the proposed methods can effectively preserve user’s privacy against LSA and RSA. The
main contribution of this paper includes the following aspects:
  • According to the activities of most users, we introduce LSA. For the attack, we give out two methods to preserve user’s privacy.
  • We divide the regions in the map into different PLs according to the privacy requirement. We give out an algorithm to make the regions of high PL to be dummies at a high rate and the regions
of low PL at a low rate. The problem that the attacker can violate the privacy of a particular region by analyzing the historical data
is solved.
  • We analyze the ability of preserving user’s privacy by entropy.The relation among the frequency of user’s LBS query, the division of regions in the map, and the length of the interval
of historical information collected is discussed. The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 gives out some preliminaries and motivation of this paper. In this section, we give out LSA and RSA. In Section 3, we propose methods to resist
LSA and RSA. In Section 4, we discuss the security and performance of the proposed methods. Section 5 presents the simulations. In
Section 6, we review the related work. Conclusion and future work are in Section 7.
